So in our last lecture, if you see we were doing as a user, we're passing the the request or the message
to the Lamb-smith via the prompt template.
And then the prompt template was formatting the the input along with the input variables.
And then it was sending it to the large language model.
And we're getting the response back to the lamb-smith.
And then we were sending it to the user.
And of course there was an observability were happening using the lamb-smith for us.
And that is what we were discussing in our last lecture.
But now that we are going to set a role for the large language model itself, and then we will see how
we can get the responses.
So basically when we say role, what I really mean about that is that if I want to say that you large
language model, you are an expert in this particular field, then give me this particular response
in a perfect fashion.
So you can say that as well.
So you can tell or assign a role to the large language model while you ask the question.
So for instance, if I go to the ChatGPT over here.
And then if I ask a question that, uh, can you explain me the financial world, uh, financial status
or maybe financial status of NZ?
Uh, it is going to give me a response over here, like what it is going to be responding like searching
it and getting the responses.
Pretty much like how it does like a Google search for me.
Right.
And now let me just stop this guy and I'm going to say you are an financial expert in NZ economy.
Now give me now explain me the financial uh status of NZ.
So now while I do that over here, you will notice that as a financial expert of New Zealand economy
in 2025, he has the detailed breakdown of the financial status.
So now you see that now this ChatGPT has got a role that he is going to play for us when it responds
and it says that this is the current economic condition, what is the fiscal position?
What is the monetary policy and interest rate policy and investment initiative and the conclusion?
So that is what I'm talking about.
So instead of you getting just like a like a search result from the ChatGPT what it knows, but this
is going to give you even more of an optimized and expected result that you're looking for.
So this kind of roles that you can actually set to the prompt template, and then you can send it to
the ChatGPT from using the prompt template as well.
That is what we're going to be discussing this lecture.
So let's see how we can actually achieve that.
So I'm going to just say a markdown over here.
And I'm going to say this is going to be what is called as prompt template.
That is what we are going to say.
But this is going to be chat prompt template okay.
What is chat prompt template.
Well I'm going to write the exact same code that we were discussing over here as well.
So I'm going to probably copy some of the code from here, I'm going to paste it, but instead of importing
the prompt template, I'm going to import what is called as chat prompt template.
This is another class that you can use, and over here for the chat prompt template we have to modify
the code a bit from what we have got over here.
So so you can pass the chat prompt template and then you can pass the the data.
But because the data requires a sequence of message, as you can see over here is that there's a square
bracket there.
So you need to probably pass it like like a square bracket, which means it's an array of information.
So you can pass the whole information there directly or within this particular array.
You can now also pass the message like how you want it to.
Um, for instance, you can pass the.
So they said they have got the template example there.
You can pass the human message.
You can pass the AI message something like this.
Or you can also pass the system message.
So what I mean in here when I say system messages that I'm going to say system.
I'm sorry, this is an array.
So we need to use the parentheses there.
And I'm going to say in system message, uh, you are an LM expert.
I'm just going to close this guy over here.
And in the next value I'm going to say as a user, I'm going to ask, what is the, uh, advantage of
running AI models in.
And then I'm going to pass the Env here.
Right.
So while I do that over here, I'm essentially going to ask the question along with system and the user
prompt over there.
So let me just comment these codes.
I don't want to run this at the moment.
I want to see how the prompt template right now looks like.
So if I try running this code, we'll see that it has got the chat prompt as input variable as env and
input type.
Is this uh, blah blah blah.
But look at that in the message.
We have got a system message prompt.
Wow.
So that is new because we are using just a chat prompt template.
But what is the system message from template?
Because now we have created a system message there.
So that is why it is called a system message from template.
And inside the system message prompt template, we have got a prompt with a prompt template, like the
generic prompt template that we actually used this guy.
And here it says another input variable type blah blah blah.
And you are it just has got what is called as an template.
As you are an LM expert.
Essentially you are creating two prompt template inside this particular chat prompt template.
So this is what it is saying.
And then there is this human message prompt template which is going to have the user details.
So this is the human message prompt template that you are passing in.
And it has got a template.
So now you got the idea right.
Like this particular prompt template is the shorthand of system and user.
We are essentially creating a system prompt template and user prompt template.
And that is what is really happening over here.
So that is what we have essentially created in this particular piece of code.
So this code can be written in an entirely different fashion as well, because now you got the idea
how this particular prompt template is really been created, the way you can create right now, the
same code, the same exact code, like how it is happening inside or behind the scene is that let's
say I'm just going to probably, um, import it like this over here.
Uh, so chat prompt template and then human message prompt template and then system message prompt template.
So I'm going to import three things right now.
And you can just say system message prompt template.
Uh sorry var system message is equal to system message prompt template.
And then I'm going to hit from template method.
And then I'm going to pass the template over here.
So basically the template is going to be you are an LLM expert.
This guy right now copy paste that.
And then I'm going to create a human message prompt template.
So which is human message or user message.
Whatever that you wanted to call it is equal to human message prompt template from template.
And then this is the message that I'm talking about.
Right.
I'm going to go and pass that over here.
And now inside this particular chat prompt template.
So this is I'm going to say one way of doing it.
And I'm going to comment this.
And I'm going to put the prompt template is equal to chat prompt template.
And as I told you this is going to be in sequence.
So it's going to be an array.
And over here I'm going to pass the system message and human message.
Just this one.
So this is also pretty much exactly the same thing that we have did over here.
This is another way of doing it.
So if I try running this prompt template look at that.
This is exactly the same thing.
So this is the chat prompt template which has got the input and input variable of e and v.
And the message has got a system message prompt template which has got these many things.
And you are an LLM expert.
And you also have got this human message prompt template which has got these information.
So this is exactly what is happening under the hood for you while you call this one.
So this is these both are exactly the same thing that we are doing over here.
So I hope you got the idea like how we are doing it.
And now if I want to invoke this particular chat chat prompt template or the prompt template that we
have got over here, this is essentially exactly the same thing.
All you have to do it is just say prompt, prompt, invoke.
And the same thing like how we did before E and V local machine.
And then we can print the content out.
So let's see if that works.
I'm gonna also print the content this time.
And let's try to run this.
Look at that.
It's executed.
And we got the response pretty much like how we were doing before.
And if I go back to our langschmidt over here, you should see that.
There we go.
So we see that that's coming up the chat Olama.
And now you have got the input as system.
You are an LLM expert and it has got a human message.
What is the advantage of running this in local machine.
And we get the response coming up over here.
That is what we're talking about the chat prompt template.
And what is the power of using chat prompt template.
And I think the shorthand is far better.
And that is what we are going to be using in this particular, uh, session most of the time, because
it is very straightforward and it is shorthand as well.
You don't really have to create so many different imports, and you have to create an from template
there and pass it to the chat prompt template instead.
You can just use this one and it is far better as well.
And you can also in fact suggest like what is the AI response going to be coming up when we talk about
template like custom template creation later on in this course.
So you'll understand how you can actually use those prompt templates and stuff.
But you got the first taste of how you can actually create the prompt templates like chat prompt template
to the user role, and also chat template to send a message to the large language model, and how you
can invoke the large language model using language chain, and also passing it to Lang Smith, and how
you can directly interact with the large language model.
So these are the things that we have discussed so far in this particular section.
In our next section, starting the next section, we will understand how we can work with the Lang chain
even further.